---
layout: ../layouts/syllabus.astro
name: Creativity & Design Thinking
number: BUS 250
sort: 13
mode: In Person
credits: 5
hours: 50
books:
- image: /assets/images/1.jpg
  title: title
  author: author
  isbn: 111
status: current
---
<!-- All Done! No Updates to MCOs Needed -->
#### Description
As everyday systems become more interdisciplinary, the challenges facing us require more creative and nuanced approaches. Creativity and Design Thinking provides students: general tools to improve creativity, an understanding of the decision-making process and a systematic framework to generate better solutions for complex challenges. This course is built for those who will work in interdisciplinary contexts or simply desire to be more creative.

#### Intended Learning Outcomes
* Apply creativity to current endeavors.
* Improve quantity and quality of generated ideas.
* Use creativity templates.
* Develop problem-definition through analysis and systematic use of rubrics.
* Practice articulating linear systems to circular systems.
* Identify system elements, relationships, influencers, and entry-points where change is most likely to be positive and effective.
* Mitigate unintended consequences of proposed interventions, short- and long-term, across stakeholders.
* Evaluate solutions for creativity, and practicality, using sustainability assessment protocols.
* Defend creative solutions.

#### Course Topics
* The difference between creative- and critical-thinking
* How the brain works
* Risk-taking
* Idea-generation methods
* Proper problem-definition
* The role of knowledge and integrative learning in creativity
* Incentivizing to produce change
* Recognizing that every solution is a potential problem
* Thinking bigger than the given problem: upstream problem-solving
* The 2-minute elevator speech