---
layout: ../layouts/syllabus.astro
#Update Status (edit, review, staged, current)
status: current
sort: 11
#Course Details
name: Principles of Marketing
number: BUS 210
mode: In Person
credits: 5
hours: 50
#Textbooks
books:
- image: 210-principles-of-marketing.jpg
  url:
  title: Principles of marketing
  author: Kotler & Armstrong
  isbn: 978-0-134-49251-3
#Update Status (edit, review, staged, current)
---
<!-- All Done! No Updates to MCOs Needed -->

#### Description
Examine the business activities of marketing; product, place, price, and promotion. Understand the role of marketing in the economy and the process used to make effective business decisions. Emphasis on global business, including eCommerce as it relates to marketing strategy. Formerly BA 210.

#### Intended Learning Outcomes
* Define marketing terms, concepts, models, and processes.
* Synthesize information to explain the concept of the marketing mix; product, place, price, and promotion.
* Compare and contrast tactics used by marketing firms to exploit the marketing mix.
* Research and analyze consumer behavior as it relates to marketing.
* Recognize cultural differences in marketing planning for a global society.
* Develop a basic marketing plan that demonstrates knowledge of material covered in class.

#### Course Topics
* Marketing’s value to consumers
* Firms and society
* Marketing Strategy planning
* Focusing Marketing Strategy with Segmentation and Positioning
* Demographic dimensions of global consumer markets
* Behavioral dimensions of the consumer market
* Improving decisions with marketing information
* Distribution customer service and logistics
* Pricing objectives and policies
* Price setting in the business world