---
layout: ../layouts/syllabus.astro
name: Javascript
number: CS 140
sort: 07
mode: In Person
credits: 5
hours: 50
books: 
- image: /assets/images/1.jpg
  title: title
  author: author
  isbn: 111
---
### Description
This course prepares a student for the JavaScript Specialist Certification Exam. Topics include Use JavaScript statements to control program flow, the use of JavaScript Document Object Model (DOM). Using JavaScript language objects and create expressions, using JavaScript to develop interactive XHTML forms.

### Intended Learning Outcomes
* Identify characteristics of JavaScript and common programming practices.
* Work with variables and data in JavaScript.
* Use JavaScript functions, methods and events.
* Use JavaScript statements to control program flow.
* Explain and use the JavaScript Document Object Model (DOM).
* Use JavaScript language objects and create expressions.
* Use JavaScript to develop interactive XHTML forms.
* Address security issues relevant to JavaScript, and define and use cookies
* Create and use custom JavaScript objects.
* Use JavaScript to change XHTML before it is rendered on a Web page.
* Use JavaScript code libraries to assist in developing JavaScript programs.
* Use JavaScript and AJAX to create interactive Web applications.
* Debug and troubleshoot JavaScript code.

#### Course Topics
* Introduction to JavaScript
* Working w/ Variables & Data in JS
* Functions, Methods & Events in JS
* Controlling Program Flow in JS
* The JS Document Object Model
* JavaScript Language Objects
* Developing Interactive Forms w/ JS
* JavaScript Security
* Custom JavaScript Objects
* Changing X/HTML on the Fly
* JavaScript Libraries
* JavaScript and AJAX
* Debugging & Troubleshooting JavaScript
* Plug-Ins & Java Applets
