---
layout: ../layouts/syllabus.astro
#Update Status (edit, review, staged, current)
status: edit
sort: 16
#Course Details
name: App Development Capstone
number: CS 231
mode: In Person
credits: 5
hours: 50
books:
- image: /assets/images/1.jpg
  title: title
  author: author
  isbn: 111
# Topic to Credits Mapping
---
<!-- Rationale for changes: To remove specificity to one particular programming language while retaining the broad App building () goal of this class.
 GRISMER: This description is way too specific to .Net. We need to rewrite it to be more generic so it can be applied to our situation. Alternately we could create an entirely new class. **Either way could you take a bash at writing a description, outcomes and topics** -->

#### Description
Students will create an application using an application project-based approach, utilizing and implementing system design, programming and database skills acquired in prior classes. Students are also required to provide a project data model and schedule the project using the development life cycle. 

*Recommended:* Recommended course sequence: CS 233, CS 231, CS 232 or instructor permission to register for CS 231. No prerequisites required when taken as the capstone for the AAS in Graphic Design & Web Development

#### Intended Learning Outcomes
* Explain the purpose of Project Planning.
* Create an analysis of the feasibility of a software application.
* Design a software application.
* Describe programming tools used to create a software application.
* Integrate software applications with the World Wide Web.
* Write an operational user’s manual and technical documentation for a software application.
* Create a fully functioning model of a software application program.
* Manage codebase with a version control  system and generate change logs

#### Course Topics
* Project planning
* Advanced programming skills
* World Wide Web and supporting applications
* User interface design
* Distributed version control
* Technical manuals and documentation

