---
layout: ../layouts/syllabus.astro
name: Javascript II
number: CS 240
sort: 12
mode: In Person
credits: 5
hours: 50
books: 
- image: /assets/images/1.jpg
  title: title
  author: author
  isbn: 111
---
#### Description
CS 240 is the second in a series of two courses designed to give students an extension of the current language and an introduction and implementation of data structures including queues, stacks, trees and graphs, using the current programming language. Topics include iterative and recursive implementations. Prerequisite: Grade of C or higher in CS 140. Recommended: CS 121.

#### Intended Learning Outcomes
* Contrast the concept of structured programming against OOP.
* Design programs using the concepts of structured programming.
* Develop algorithms to solve complex problems
* Use arrays, structures, stacks, and queues
* Explain and classify the different classes withing Object Oriented Programming
* Demonstrate sorting and searching methods
* Design higher order functions
* Explain ES6 semantics and syntax additions
* Use a transpiler
* Test JavaScript in the Browser
* Analyze JavaScript in NodeJS

#### Course Topics
* OOP principles used for JavaScript coding practices.
* Debugging JavaScript in the browser.
* Advanced Functions: Callback functions, Bind, Curry, IIFE (Immediately Invoked Function Expression)
* Asynchronous execution, timers, Prototypal Inheritance, and Closures
* JavaScript Design Patterns, Object Creation Patterns, and Code Reuse Patterns
* Code Minification and Compression, Loading Strategies, and Dependency Management
* First-class and higher order functions in coding practices
* Functional programming techniques to your JavaScript projects