---
layout: ../layouts/syllabus.astro
#Update Status (edit, review, staged, current)
status: staged
sort: 08
#Course Details
name: Developer Workflow Tools
number: CS 262
mode: In Person
credits: 5
hours: 50
# Textbooks
books:
  - image: 261-responsive-design-best-practices.jpg
    url: ui/best-practices/responsive-design-best-practices.pdf
    title: Responsive Web Design Best Practices
    author: Gremillion, Cao & Rutherford
    isbn:
  - image: 261-web-ui-best-practices.jpg
    url: ui/best-practices/web-ui-best-practices.pdf
    title: Web UI Best Practices
    author: Blank & Cao
    isbn:
# Topic to Credits Mapping
---

<!-- Rationale for changes: This Class has changed significantly. While Sass remains, jQuery has been deprecated and GIT and Responsive have been folded into CS 251. In the place of the removed content we offer Webpack, Tailwind, and an intro to Wordpress CMS
-->

#### Description
Developer tooling allows web developers to offload much of the routine, tedious work of code optimization, file preparation and deployment to an intelligent, automatic workflow. Students optimize and deploy websites by configuring and maintaining dev-tooling pipelines. Style preprocessors and frameworks accelerate the creation and simplify the maintenance of design systems. Students construct design systems for web sites by extending Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) with style preprocessors and frameworks. Content Management Systems (CMS) allow websites to be managed by a web-based centralized interface. Students configure a website using popular CMS platforms.
#### Intended Learning Outcomes
* Utilize a version control system to manage a codebase.
* Employ the basics of Node Package Manager (NPM) and node modules.
* Create and configure a custom dev-tooling workflow with a module bundler.
* Build responsive design systems that utilize a preprocessor and/or atomic CSS.
* Replicate existing websites using comprehensive dev-tooling, pre/post preprocessing and atomic CSS.
* Install and administer a Content Management System to manage a website.
#### Course Topics
* Distributed Version control (GIT)
* CSS Preprocessing with SASS or equivalent
* Module management with Node Package Manager (NPM)
* Dev workflow bundling with Webpack or equivalent
* Atomic CSS with Tailwind or equivalent
* Website replication
* Content Management System setup with Wordpress
